Me personally, I feel good because you look down on me,
I know what I'm doing. I know who I'm helping. I'm Brian Alean. I'm a peer
supervisor at Insight. I've been here for the last 18 years.
I make sure that everybody's okay. There's no fights, no arguments, everything's
calm, everybody's living. I make sure that if you're sleeping, I check on
you every few minutes to see if you're still breathing.
Also, I feed people. I give people coffee and juice. I make sure
there's no fighting. I keep the place safe.
For many years, I've been a drug addict. I've been clean now for
the last 15 years, but I've been a drug addict for many,
many years. And I wanna see that people are getting the help that
I really didn't get. If you go to, say, fixing sites or ops now, there
was none of that when I was an addict, so it is nice
to see the change. But yes, I had to go through the whole
stigma where people looked down on me instead of now people are looking
at me. So yeah, sometimes people still look down on me thinking that
I am a user or just because I'm living in a poor neighborhood. They don't
know that I work everyday. They don't know me.
One time when I was in the hospital,
a nurse really, really didn't seem to like me because of who I
am and where I came from. I had a thing in my
belly to put antibiotics in me, and I stepped on it and it pulled
out. And she was very angry, very, very angry. I'm not gonna pull
something out to hurt myself. I was just a child. I went in
the hospital to have my appendix out. I come from very,
very bad poverty. So the nurse knew right away by looking at me. And
she said, "Oh, all he needs is some TLC."
And that stuck with me all my life, just somebody who wanted to
help me, who felt good about me. And anytime I can apply it
in my work, in my day to day life, I apply it. I
help people when I can. I see someone needs some care, I give it to them.
And my message was to the Vancouver Coastal Health, to the Vancouver City,
to anybody in Vancouver, start hiring peers. We are people. We do good
work, and we're needed in the community because a lot of peers don't
wanna talk to people of authority. They don't wanna talk to police. They
don't wanna talk to maybe even healthcare workers. They'd rather talk to
their own who can help them. Maybe I can talk to you for
them. If you wanna engage... Someone in healthcare wanna engage with somebody
who uses substances, I've seen right away they should just talk to them
and see exactly where the conversation goes. And you can tell everything
from there. If you wanna help the person, you'll know right from the
way they talk. If not, then you'll send them somewhere where they can
get help. I'm really, really proud that I got off the drugs.
When I started work in 2003, I was a hardcore drug addict, heroin, cocaine,
rock for many, many years. I was on my job for three years
before I stopped. I haven't had nothing since. I'm very proud of that.
And because I am clean, I can help people a whole lot more.